README.md, before:

# GitID - Manage Multiple Git Identities Easily

GitID is a convenient command-line interface (CLI) that allows you seamlessly manage and switch between multiple git SSH identities on a single user account.

**Caution:** While this program works well, it is still work in progress. I recommend backing up your ~/.ssh directory before using this.

## Installation

```
npm install -g gitid
```

## Usage

Here's how you can use the different commands of this CLI:

- **Create new identity:**

  This will create a new `ed25519` SSH identity.

  ```
  gitid new <identity>
  ```

  ```
  # example
  gitid new personal
  ```

  Replace `<identity>` with the desired name for your new identity.

- **List identities:**

  This will list all available identities.

  ```
  gitid list
  ```

- **Check current identity:**

  This will output the current identity.

  ```
  gitid current
  ```

- **Use identity:**

  This will change the Git identity for the repository in the current directory to a specified identity.

  ```
  gitid use <identity>
  ```

  ```
  # example
  gitid use personal
  ```

  Replace `<identity>` with the name of the identity you want to use.

## TODO

[ ] Option to set user.name and user.email in an identity
[ ] Optionally exclude user.name and user.email settings from an identity

## Do I need GitID?

GitID is your solution if you are:

- Having a hard time managing multiple Git identity files on a single user account
- Struggling with permission issues when accidentally pushing from a wrong identity file
- Tired of having to modify git URLs every time you clone or add a new remote

## Manual Installation and Contribution

First, clone the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/inderdeepbajwa/gitid.git
cd gitid
```

Then install the dependencies:

```
yarn install
```

Finally, build the code:

```
yarn run build
```

---

## Note

This CLI is meant for managing SSH identities on a single machine, the identity names you use are local to your machine and do not have to correspond to your actual GitHub username.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

---

Commit message:

chore: add 'show' command usage information

README.md, after:

# GitID - Manage Multiple Git Identities Easily

GitID is a convenient command-line interface (CLI) that allows you seamlessly manage and switch between multiple git SSH identities on a single user account.

**Caution:** While this program works well, it is still work in progress. I recommend backing up your ~/.ssh directory before using this.

## Installation

```
npm install -g gitid
```

## Usage

Here's how you can use the different commands of this CLI:

- **Create new identity:**

  This will create a new `ed25519` SSH identity.

  ```
  gitid new <identity>
  ```

  ```
  # example
  gitid new personal
  ```

  Replace `<identity>` with the desired name for your new identity.

- **List identities:**

  This will list all available identities.

  ```
  gitid list
  ```

- **Check current identity:**

  This will output the current identity.

  ```
  gitid current
  ```

- **Use identity:**

  This will change the Git identity for the repository in the current directory to a specified identity.

  ```
  gitid use <identity>
  ```

  ```
  # example
  gitid use personal
  ```

  Replace `<identity>` with the name of the identity you want to use.

- **Show public key:**

  This command fetches and displays the public key of a specified identity.
  
  ```
  gitid show <identity>
  ```
  
  ```
  # example
  gitid show personal
  ```
  
  Replace `<identity>` with the name of the identity you want to show the public key for. 
  
  This command reads the SSH config file, extracts the path of the corresponding `IdentityFile` for the specified identity, and then reads and prints the contents of the file. If the identity or the key file is not found, it will print an appropriate error message. 

## TODO

[ ] Option to set user.name and user.email in an identity

[ ] Optionally exclude user.name and user.email settings from an identity

## Do I need GitID?

GitID is your solution if you are:

- Having a hard time managing multiple Git identity files on a single user account
- Struggling with permission issues when accidentally pushing from a wrong identity file
- Tired of having to modify git URLs every time you clone or add a new remote

## Manual Installation and Contribution

First, clone the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/inderdeepbajwa/gitid.git
cd gitid
```

Then install the dependencies:

```
yarn install
```

Finally, build the code:

```
yarn run build
```

---

## Note

This CLI is meant for managing SSH identities on a single machine, the identity names you use are local to your machine and do not have to correspond to your actual GitHub username.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

---
